Tonight, we have a number of big news stories to cover,
including that dangerous winter storm
that could make President's Day weekend travel a nightmare.
Plus, our new reporting about what's
happening in Ukraine as the US warns of an imminent invasion.
As American forces arrive in Eastern Europe,
Russian-backed forces bomb a kindergarten
in what Western leaders fear may be a pretext for war.
Our CBS's Holly Williams is there in a broadcast exclusive.
And this is where children would normally have been playing.
But the Biden administration continues its quest
for diplomacy at the United Nations.
Massive winter storm.
Hundreds of flights canceled as 100 million Americans
face heavy snow, ice, rain, and flooding,
plus strong winds from Oklahoma to Maine.
And Trump must testify.
The judge's stunning ruling tonight
that means the former president and his children
must be interviewed under oath.
Teen mall fight.
The outrage tonight as an officer
tackles a Black 8th grader.
Sexual assaults at military academies
nearly five years after our investigation.
The news that the problem has gotten worse.
Olympic doping scandal, the surprising ending.
Russian teen skating star falls to fourth place
after a dismal performance.
And an 11-year-old boy's mullet won
a national contest but his story will win your heart.
This is the CBS Evening News with Norah O'Donnell,
reporting from the nation's capital.
Good evening to our viewers in the West,
and thank you for joining us.
The eyes of the world are on Ukraine tonight.
And with close to 160,000 Russian troops still in attack
positions, President Biden believes the threat of invasion
remains very high.
The Defense Secretary today said Russia
appears to be setting the stage for war
by adding combat aircraft and stocking up on blood supply
on the front lines in case of battlefield casualties.
Well, tonight, officials are accusing Russian-backed forces
of firing shells at a school in Eastern Ukraine.
And in a broadcast exclusive, we are inside that kindergarten.
But in the hopes of settling the crisis through diplomacy,
the Secretary of State made an unscheduled stop at the United
Nations today delivering an impassioned speech
and outlining new, quote, theatrical steps the US thinks
the Kremlin may take.
We have the story covered from every angle
from the front lines in Ukraine to here in Washington.
And CBS's Ed O'Keefe is going to start us off
from the White House.
Good evening, Ed.
Good evening, Norah.
Those developments you mentioned have President Biden
and top officials deeply concerned
that Vladimir Putin is on the verge of launching a full scale
invasion.
But even as Russian troops inch closer to Ukraine,
the Biden administration is pushing
for a diplomatic solution.
Tonight, over 6,000 American troops
are in position in Eastern Europe
while the Russian military continues
to show off its firepower.
The number of soldiers President Putin
has assembled growing close to 160,000, almost half
within 30 miles of the Ukrainian border.
And despite Russian state media showing
video of Russian troops withdrawing, Putin has claimed,
President Biden today says he's convinced
an invasion is imminent.
They have not moved any of their troops out.
They've moved more troops in.
My sense is this will happen in the next several days.
The president also accused Russia
of sparking a so-called false flag operation today
in Eastern Ukraine where a school was bombed,
but the Ukrainian military and Russian-backed separatists
traded blame.
Addressing the United Nations Security Council,
Secretary of State Antony Blinken
said the incident is exactly what the US has
been warning could happen.
Russia plans to manufacture a pretext for its attack.
We don't know exactly the form it will take.
It could be a fabricated so-called terrorist bombing
inside Russia.
The invent of discovery of a mass grave.
A staged drone strike against civilians.
Or a fake-- even a real attack using chemical weapons.
Despite the dire warnings, Blinken
urged Russia to engage in dialogue and diplomacy.
Let me be clear.
I am here today not to start a war but to prevent one.
But the Russians took a different diplomatic approach,
expelling the second ranking American official
from the US embassy in Moscow, something US officials called
baseless.
And in a written response to security proposals made
last month, Russia warned that if the US and NATO don't agree
to keep Ukraine out of the military alliance,
Russia will be forced to respond with measures
of a military technical nature.
Also, tonight, Vice President Harris
is in Germany for a major global security
conference, her biggest moment yet on the world stage.
Aides say she is set to focus on rallying European allies
against Russian aggression and plans to meet Saturday
with Ukraine's president.
Norah.
Ed O'Keefe, thank you.
Now, to the front lines in Ukraine
and the village that was allegedly
shelled by those Russian-backed forces
in a possible false flag operation.
Children were forced to take shelter in the basement
during the attack.
CBS's Holly Williams was the only broadcast network
correspondent who visited the school.
Ukraine says that Russian-backed separatists
fired heavy artillery into this village Donetsk
in Luhansk, reportedly injuring three people
and hitting this kindergarten.
You can see some of the damage, and this
is where children would normally have been playing.
Reportedly, some of the children took shelter in the basement
here.
Others were evacuated by their parents.
It must have been terrifying for the children involved.
We understand that none of them were injured.
We were transported out here by Ukraine's military
this afternoon.
Ukraine, very obviously, wants the world media to see this.
There is clearly a sense of outrage.
Now, Ukraine has been fighting a war
against Russian-backed separatists
here in the Far East of Ukraine since 2014.
It is a bloody conflict.
Ukraine says that more than 14,000 people
have lost their lives.
But now, with more than 150,000 Russian troops
reported to be massed along Ukraine's borders,
there are fears repeatedly expressed
by the US and its allies that Russia could stage or provoke
a violent incident as a pretext, as a justification for moving
in.
In fact, the US says it now has reason
to believe that just such an operation,
a so-called false flag operation is underway.
If that's true, in this part of the world that's
already on edge, it's a very dangerous game.
Holly Williams in Ukraine for us.
Thank you.
Well, tonight, more than 100 million Americans
are on the path of a massive winter storm
system from Oklahoma to Maine.
Kansas City broke their single day record
with more than a half a foot of snow.
Meteorologist Mike Bettes joins us now
from the weather channel's global headquarters.
And Mike, the system looks like it's
going to make President's Day weekend
travel quite dangerous, right?
That's right, Norah.
Very dangerous indeed from South to North with numerous areas
picking up different varieties of weather.
Let's start in the South and show
you a virtual view of Birmingham and notice
that severe storms are very prevalent across the South
for the remainder of the evening and overnight.
Tornadoes possible in many locations,
including the Tennessee Valley through the Southeast.
That's a look at what the storms will
do as they go through the evening racing
through Alabama, Georgia, and then the Carolinas.
Cities like Birmingham, Atlanta, Nashville, and beyond at risk.
Farther North, heavy rain through the Ohio Valley
into the Northeast with the snow and the high winds
on the backside of that.
We're going to see some flooding in this area.
We're also going to see some very significant travel
conditions that are going to deteriorate.
Some areas getting ice, some areas getting up
to 6 inches or more of snow.
As far as the rainfall forecast goes, just wet along the I-95
corridor in the morning.
Some areas picking up 2 to 3 inches of rain,
that will lead to some flooding not to mention
the snow on the backside of the entire system blanketing
places like Buffalo, Cleveland, and Detroit,
nor in places like the Motor City looking for 5 to 8 inches
by the time the sun comes up tomorrow.
Mike Bettes, thanks.
In a major defeat for Donald Trump,
a New York judge today ruled that the former president
and his two eldest children--
Ivanka and Donald Trump Jr-- must
testify under oath in New York State civil investigation
into his business practices.
CBS's Catherine Herridge has more.
The eight-page ruling from the New York judge
means State Attorney General Letitia
James can question former President Trump, Don Jr,
and Ivanka about their business practices
as part of a civil inquiry.
And the court order sets a short timeline,
ruling the Trumps must comply in full with existing subpoenas
to provide records and sit for depositions within 21 days.
I love loans.
I love other people's money.
Last month, James alleged the Trump organization repeatedly
engaged in fraudulent and misleading practices
to secure loans, tax benefits, and insurance coverage.
The Trump organization is accused
of inflating prices, including tripling the actual size of Mr.
Trump's penthouse, which added about $200 million
to the valuation.
James also alleged the valuations
of Trump golf courses in New York and Scotland
were exaggerated.
At today's contentious hearing, the Trump lawyers
attacked James and her probe as tainted
by political bias and an effort to pave
the way for criminal charges in a separate case.
The judge said their arguments missed the mark.
Even if James dislikes Mr. Trump,
it does not cross the line to unlawful discrimination
and Mr. Trump has the right to plead the Fifth.
And Catherine joins us.
So how did Trump's lawyers respond?
Well, Norah, even before the ruling,
his lawyers indicated that they would appeal
and that could delay or even de-sync
the depositions all together.
Catherine Herridge, thank you.
You're welcome.
Well, tonight, the police response
to a fight at a New Jersey mall, has
prompted an internal investigation
after two officers handcuffed and pinned a Black teen
to the floor while allowing another teen
involved to sit on a couch.
The Black teen's family is now demanding
the officers be fired.
Here's CBS's Jericka Duncan.
This video of two teens fighting inside a New Jersey mall
has sparked outrage.
Two officers intervened, one teen
was allowed to sit on the sofa, the Black teen
was placed in handcuffs with both officers kneeling
on his back.
It's because he's Black.
What was your initial reaction to that video?
Anger, hurt, disgust, disappointment.
Ebony, who does not want to use her last name,
says her 8th grade son's Z'Kye did not resist
as officers handcuffed him.
It made me feel like they're agreeing--
and they were agreeing to him-- to me being inferior to him.
Z'Kye who is 14 says he was trying to stop his 7th grade
friend from being bullied by a 15-year-old named Joseph.
I did not bully, tease them.
We spoke to Joseph who says he's Hispanic.
I was confused why they were detaining him and not me.
I even offered to get detained.
When I was on the couch, I put my hands up like this,
and I said, you guys could detain me.
But she said no, because you were calm.
Both officers are under investigation.
Police did not charge the teens, still
Ebony wants the officers to be held accountable
and worries about her son.
Have you ever had the conversation
with your son about being a young man
and being seen by some potentially as a threat?
Absolutely.
You have to have your Black man America talk to every boy.
Jericka Duncan, CBS News, New York.
Well, now, the Olympics where the latest
in the Russian doping scandal and the figure skating
competition came to a surprising end.
CBS's Jamie Yuccas has the latest from Beijing.
It was a remarkable finale to the marquee event
of the Winter Games.
Kamila Valieva, who was the gold medal favorite,
slipped and stumbled her way through her free skate,
then crumbled into tears.
Emotions swept up many of her fellow skaters too.
As the result sank in, her two Russian teammates
earned gold and silver.
The bronze went to Japan.
Valieva finished fourth.
It was very heartbreaking to watch this
unfold the way that it did.
You couldn't help but feel empathy
for her and for the situation that she's been put in
as a 15-year-old, as a child.
Valieva tested positive for a banned substance last December
but was cleared to compete while her case is reviewed.
Unfortunately, the longevity of figure skaters,
and particularly Russian figure skaters, is two to three years.
I don't think she's back for the next Olympics.
Team Canada wins their fifith gold medal in women's hockey.
As for Team USA the women's hockey team
was denied back-to-back gold medals, losing in the finals
to their rival Canada for the fourth time in Olympic history.
But star forward Hilary Knight vowed, "we'll be back."
Mikaela Shiffrin will also be back.
She decided to race one more time
in a record-tying sixth event today
in hopes of medalling at these games.
While the quirky group of US men's
curlers who won gold in 2018 will now play for bronze
against Canada later today.
Norah.
Quirky is good, and it looks really cold there in Beijing.
Jamie Yuccas, thanks.
It is.
Well, now to the Mississippi Delta,
one of the poorest regions and the poorest
state in the nation.
CBS's Janet Shamlian traveled there
for tonight's Eye on America to spotlight
a program that's trying to bring change one
storefront at a time.
Hi, Ms. Maggie.
It's a dream come true for Kenesha Lewis,
her own smoothie shop, Kay's Kute Fruit, in Greenville,
Mississippi.
She used to sell them from her apartment.
Oh, we bought this place.
How does that feel?
It's awesome.
Like what?
Me?
Awesome, we really, really bought it?
Yeah, we bought it.
Black-owned businesses are a minority in the Mississippi
Delta even with the population in some places more than 70%
African-American.
In a state with the nation's highest poverty
rate, almost 20% in parts of the Delta, it's more than double
that.
Majority of the businesses I was seeing sustaining
were White-owned and the math just didn't add up to me.
And so I figured that there was a resource gap.
Tim Lampkin wanted to close that gap
and help business owners like Lewis
who had trouble getting a loan.
He saw the region increasingly distressed
and the wealth gap growing when he quit a big city job
to return to his Delta home.
When you came back here and you realized what was happening,
what did you think?
The first thing I thought was how
am I going to be a part of the solution.
I never think about things from a deficit mindset,
it's always optimistic.
Tim started Higher Purpose to provide mentors and connect
lenders to people like nurse practitioner Mary Williams.
It's the only half the dose of your first shot.
OK.
She saw the need for an emergency care center
in Clarksdale, the closest was 45 minutes away.
But says, even with seed money, banks turned her down.
My proposal may be the exact same as my White counterparts'
proposal but yet it doesn't carry the same weight
to the lender.
OK, come on.
Higher Purpose introduced her to a lender who made the loan.
The clinic has become a lifeline beyond health care.
When you help someone like Dr. Williams,
what's the impact on the community?
It's really important that people see themselves
in their community.
And so this is much bigger than myself or Dr. Williams.
It's more about creating a new legacy and generation.
A generation of business-owners reflective
of the community they serve.
I mentor young ladies.
And to know that they watch me, they're understanding things,
they're coming out of their shells with things,
that makes my heart healthy because I'm
walking in my purpose.
Leveling the playing field after decades of disparity.
See you later.
Have a good one.
For Eye on America, Janet Shamlian
in the Mississippi Delta.
Such a great program.
Well, still ahead on tonight's CBS Evening News.
That new report from the Pentagon about sexual assaults
at America's military academies.
And why the FDA is warning parents
not to use some powdered baby formulas.
Tonight's Eye on America segment is
sponsored by United Healthcare Medicare plans.
Get Medicare with more.
Tonight, the Pentagon is reporting
a record number of sexual assaults
at US military service academies.
131 assaults were reported during the 2020-21 school year.
That's up 7% from 2019 when students
were on campus all year.
Officials say part of the reason may
be that victims are more comfortable coming forward
and reporting these incidents.
All right, a safety warning tonight from the FDA
for some powdered infant formulas.
The agency is investigating complaints
of at least four illnesses, including possibly one death,
linked to formulas made at Abbott Nutrition at its plant
in Sturgis, Michigan.
The FDA is advising parents not to use
certain batches of Similac, Alimentum or EleCare
powdered infant formulas with an expiration date of April 1st
or later.
The company says it will do whatever it
takes to resolve the situation.
All right, coming up next.
This is such a great story.
An 11-year-old boy whose mullet won a contest but it
is his heart that is getting all the attention.
If you can't watch the CBS Evening News, you can listen.
Subscribe wherever you get your podcasts.
Sponsored by Principal Financial Group.
Remote learning has resulted in some interesting fashion trends
during the pandemic.
Meet an Arkansas boy whose pandemic look is
a cut above the rest, and it's all for a good cause.
Here's CBS's Meg Oliver.
During the pandemic, 12-year-old Allan Baltz found a new hairdo.
Why did you choose a mullet?
I'm like, what would really embarrass my sister the most?
Leslie and Derek Baltz live in Jonesboro, Arkansas.
Like parents across the country, they
were desperate for creative ideas during 2020.
Alice dyed her hair teal, I went red, Allan did a mullet.
How did you feel about the mullet?
At first, I was really questioning my parenting
skills.
But when a friend told them about the USA Mullet
Championship, everything changed.
I cannot believe this is a real thing.
The Baltz is adopted Allan and Alice when they were five.
Allan would only enter the contest
if he could donate the $2,500 prize money to foster care.
I was in foster care and I know completely how it feels
and who would waste $2,500 or something?
Not so important.
The community rallied around him adding thousands more.
I felt we had a chance to be near the top.
But the kids sporting the cool shades and fresh suit
won the illustrious title USA Mullet Champion.
If you had one wish out of all of this, what would it be?
No more kids being foster cared.
Meg Oliver, CBS News, Jonesboro, Arkansas.
I told you, he'd steal your heart.
We'll be right back.
Tomorrow's Friday so CBS's Steve Hartman goes on the road
and visits a Florida school with an unlikely mascot.
And a reminder, if you can't watch us live,
you can set your DVR so you can watch us later.
That's tonight's CBS Evening News.
I'm Norah O'Donnell in our nation's capital.
Good night.